update: annotations defaulting rule and the new `all` meta-target (#4874)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/annotations.md

  * `file`
  * `field`
  * `property` (annotations with this target are not visible to Java)
  * `get` (property getter)
  * `set` (property setter)
  * `all` (an experimental meta-target for properties, see [below](#all-meta-target) for its purpose and usage)
  * `receiver` (receiver parameter of an extension function or property)

    To annotate the receiver parameter of an extension function, use the following syntax:

    ```kotlin
    fun @receiver:Fancy String.myExtension() { ... }
    ```
    
  * `param` (constructor parameter)
  * `setparam` (property setter parameter)
  * `delegate` (the field storing the delegate instance for a delegated property)

### Defaults when no use-site targets are specified

If you don't specify a use-site target, the target is chosen according to the `@Target` annotation of the annotation
being used.
If there are multiple applicable targets, the first applicable target from the following list is used:

* `param`
* `property`
* `field`

For example:

```kotlin
data class User(val username: String,
                // @Email here is equivalent to @param:Email
                @Email val email: String) {

>     // @Email is equivalent to @field:Email

Reviewer: I would suggest explicitly introducing `Email` somewhere above.

>     // @Email is equivalent to @field:Email

Author: Yep, omitted the definition for some reason. Added the same link to Jakarta as in the KEEP.

>     // @Email is equivalent to @field:Email

Author: Absolutely, I meant using the same example in general. Added the definition code block for both `all` and defaulting rule sections, check it out.

        compilerOptions {
            freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xannotation-default-target=first-only")
        }
    }
    ```

### `all` meta-target

<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

The `all` target makes it easier to apply the same annotation not only to the parameter and the property or field, but also to the corresponding getter and setter.

Specifically, the annotation marked with `all` is propagated, if applicable:

* To the constructor parameter (`param`) if the property is defined in the primary constructor.
* To the property itself (`property`).
* To the backing field (`field`) if the property has one.
* To the getter (`get`).
* To the setter parameter (`setparam`) if the property is defined as `var`.
* To the Java-only target `RECORD_COMPONENT` if the class has the `@JvmRecord` annotation.

In the example below, the `@Email` annotation is applied to all relevant targets of each property:

```kotlin
data class User(
    val username: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field` and `get`
    @all:Email val email: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field`, `get`, and `set_param`
    @all:Email var name: String,
) {

>     // Applies `@Email` to `property`, `field`, and `getter` (no `param` since it's not in the constructor)

Author: I added the exact definition for `@Email` and removed `property` from the comments here.

The full list of supported use-site targets is:

  * `file`
  * `field`
  * `property` (annotations with this target are not visible to Java)
  * `get` (property getter)
  * `set` (property setter)
  * `all` (an experimental meta-target for properties, see [below](#all-meta-target) for its purpose and usage)
  * `receiver` (receiver parameter of an extension function or property)

    To annotate the receiver parameter of an extension function, use the following syntax:

    ```kotlin
    fun @receiver:Fancy String.myExtension() { ... }
    ```
    
  * `param` (constructor parameter)
  * `setparam` (property setter parameter)
  * `delegate` (the field storing the delegate instance for a delegated property)

### Defaults when no use-site targets are specified

If you don't specify a use-site target, the target is chosen according to the `@Target` annotation of the annotation
being used.
If there are multiple applicable targets, the first applicable target from the following list is used:

* `param`
* `property`
* `field`

For example:

```kotlin
data class User(val username: String,

>                 // @Email here is equivalent to @param:Email

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                // @Email is equivalent to @param:Email
```

                @Email val email: String) {

>     // @Email here is equivalent to @field:Email

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // @Email is equivalent to @field:Email
```

    @Email val secondaryEmail: String? = null
}
```

> Kotlin %kotlinEapVersion% introduced an experimental defaulting rule which should

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kotlin 2.2.0 introduced an experimental defaulting rule which should
```
As this content should only be merged with the final release, it's best to mention the actual release version so the EAP version doesn't automatically update later.

make propagating annotations to parameters, fields, and properties more predictable.

With the new rule, if there are multiple applicable targets, one or more is chosen as follows:

* If the constructor parameter target (`param`) is applicable, it is used.
* If the property target (`property`) is applicable, it is used.
* If the field target (`field`) is applicable while `property` isn't, `field` is used.

Using the same example:

```kotlin
data class User(val username: String,

>                 // @Email here is now equivalent to @param:Email @field:Email

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                // @Email is now equivalent to @param:Email @field:Email
```

                @Email val email: String) {

>     // @Email here is still equivalent to @field:Email

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // @Email is still equivalent to @field:Email
```

    @Email val secondaryEmail: String? = null
}
```

If there are multiple targets, and none of `param`, `property`, or `field` are applicable, the annotation is invalid.

To enable the new defaulting rule, use the following line in your Gradle configuration:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xannotation-default-target=param-property")
    }
}
```

Whenever you'd like to use the old behavior, you can:

* In a specific case, specify the necessary target explicitly, for example, using `@param:Annotation` instead of `@Annotation`.
* For a whole project, use this flag in your Gradle build file:

    ```kotlin
    // build.gradle.kts
    kotlin {
        compilerOptions {
            freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xannotation-default-target=first-only")
        }
    }
    ```

### `all` meta-target

<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

> The `all` target makes it more convenient to cover all important cases when the same annotation needs to apply
> not only to the parameter and the property or field but also to the corresponding getter and setter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `all` target makes it easier to apply the same annotation not only to the parameter and the property or field, but also to the corresponding getter and setter.
```

Specifically, the annotation marked with `all` is propagated, if applicable:

* To the constructor parameter (`param`) if the property is defined in the primary constructor.
* To the property itself (`property`).
* To the backing field (`field`) if the property has one.
* To the getter (`get`).
* To the setter parameter (`setparam`) if the property is defined as `var`.
* To the Java-only target `RECORD_COMPONENT` if the class has the `@JvmRecord` annotation.

In the example below, the `@Email` annotation is applied to all relevant targets of each property:

```kotlin
data class User(
    val username: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field` and `get`
    @all:Email val email: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field`, `get`, and `set_param`
    @all:Email var name: String,
) {
    // Applies `@Email` to `property`, `field`, and `getter` (no `param` since it's not in the constructor)
    @all:Email val secondaryEmail: String? = null
}
```

You can use the `all` meta-target with any property, both inside and outside the primary constructor.

> The `all` target comes with some limitations:

Reviewer 2: WDYT about adding a subheader here "Limitations"?

* It does not propagate an annotation to types, potential extension receivers, or context receivers or parameters.
* It cannot be used with multiple annotations:
    ```kotlin
    @all:[A B] // forbidden, use `@all:A @all:B`
    val x: Int = 5
    ```
* It cannot be used with [delegated properties](delegated-properties.md).

> To enable the `@all` meta-target in your project, use the following compiler option in the command line:

Reviewer 2: WDYT about adding a header here? "How to enable" or "How to opt in"?

  * `receiver` (receiver parameter of an extension function or property)

    To annotate the receiver parameter of an extension function, use the following syntax:

    ```kotlin
    fun @receiver:Fancy String.myExtension() { ... }
    ```
    
  * `param` (constructor parameter)
  * `setparam` (property setter parameter)
  * `delegate` (the field storing the delegate instance for a delegated property)

### `all` use-site meta-target

<primary-label ref="experimental-opt-in"/>

The `all` target makes it more convenient to cover all important cases when the same annotation needs to apply
not only to the parameter and the property or field but also to the corresponding getter and setter.

Specifically, the annotation marked with `all` is propagated, if applicable:

* To the constructor parameter (`param`) if the property is defined in the primary constructor.
* To the property itself (`property`).
* To the backing field (`field`) if the property has one.
* To the getter (`get`).
* To the setter parameter (`setparam`) if the property is defined as `var`.
* To the Java-only target `RECORD_COMPONENT` if the class has the `@JvmRecord` annotation.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

You can use the `@all` meta-target with any property, both inside and outside the primary constructor. 

```

The `all` target comes with some limitations:

* It does not propagate an annotation to types, potential extension receivers, or context receivers or parameters.
* It cannot be used with multiple annotations:
    ```kotlin
    @all:[A B] // forbidden, use `@all:A @all:B`
    val x: Int = 5
    ```
* It cannot be used with [delegated properties](delegated-properties.md).

> TODO: add instructions for enabling

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To enable the `@all` meta-target in your project, use the following compiler option in the command line:

```Bash
-Xannotation-target-all
```

Or add it to the `compilerOptions {}` block of your Gradle build file:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
kotlin {
    compilerOptions {
        freeCompilerArgs.add("-Xannotation-target-all")
    }
}
```

```

not only to the parameter and the property or field but also to the corresponding getter and setter.

Specifically, the annotation marked with `all` is propagated, if applicable:

* To the constructor parameter (`param`) if the property is defined in the primary constructor.
* To the property itself (`property`).
* To the backing field (`field`) if the property has one.
* To the getter (`get`).
* To the setter parameter (`setparam`) if the property is defined as `var`.
* To the Java-only target `RECORD_COMPONENT` if the class has the `@JvmRecord` annotation.

In the example below, the `@Email` annotation is applied to all relevant targets of each property:
```kotlin
data class User(
    val username: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field` and `get`
    @all:Email val email: String,
    // Applies `@Email` to `param`, `property`, `field`, `get`, and `set_param`
    @all:Email var name: String,
) {
    // Applies `@Email` to `property`, `field`, and `getter` (no `param` since it's not in the constructor)
    @all:Email val secondaryEmail: String? = null

> }

Reviewer 3: It seems we're missing ``` to close the sample code.
